README.md, before:

# RabbitMq
How work rabbitMQ? RabbitMq is a MessageBrocker
# what is messageBrocker ?
it is an intermediary computer program that create communication between system or application by managing the transfer of the data(messages) between them.
* we set for all operation 
### Message Queue:
• a message broker often operates on the concept of a message Queue.
• Application or Service send messages to a queue and other application can retrieve and process those message from the queue.
• Queues provide a way for different parts of a system to communicate asynchronously And decoupling the producer(those sending messages) and Consumers (those receiving and processing messages)

## What is Exchange:
we are not send message on queue and we send message on Exchange  
In the context of message queues, particularly in systems like RabbitMQ or Apache Kafka, an exchange is a fundamental component responsible for receiving messages from producers and routing them to message queues based on specific rules, known as bindings.

When a message is sent to an exchange, it doesn't immediately land in a queue. Instead, the exchange examines the message's routing key and other properties, and then routes it to one or more queues based on rules defined by bindings. These rules determine which queues should receive the message based on criteria such as routing keys, message attributes, or patterns.

Exchanges come in different types, each with its own routing algorithm:

1. **Direct Exchange**: Routes messages to queues based on an exact match between the routing key and the binding key. <set the name of the queue OneName>

2. **Fanout Exchange**: Routes messages to all queues bound to it, regardless of the routing key.<set on all the queue>

3. **Topic Exchange**: Routes messages to queues based on wildcard matching of the routing key.<set the names of the queue multiName>

4. **Headers Exchange**: Routes messages based on message header attributes rather than the routing key.<set the names of the queue like json>

The exchange acts as a mediator between producers and queues, ensuring that messages are delivered to the appropriate destinations based on the defined routing rules. It abstracts the complexity of message routing from producers and allows for flexible and dynamic message routing within the system.
* docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl list_exchanges
## for create Exchange(declar):
create exchange you should use the declar:
1) docker exec -it 14 rabbitmqadmin declare exchange name=send_email_events --vhost=customers  type=topic -u afshin -p 123456 durable=true
if  rabbitmqadmin is error you can use:
1.1) curl -i -u afshin:123456 -H "content-type:application/json" -XPUT http://localhost:15672/api/exchanges/customers/send_email_events -d'{"type":"topic","durable":true}'
after the create you should give the permission for the Exchange the you create.

## What is Channel:

* In the context of message queue systems like RabbitMQ or Apache Kafka, a channel is a communication pathway or virtual connection between a client (producer or consumer) and a message broker (e.g., RabbitMQ server, Kafka broker). Channels are used to send and receive messages, manage acknowledgments, and control flow between the client and the message broker.
In summary, channels play a crucial role in facilitating communication and message exchange between clients (producers and consumers) and message brokers in message . * queue systems, providing a level of abstraction and control over the underlying communication processes.
You can use one Channel for everything. However, if you have multiple threads, it's suggested to use a different Channel for each thread

## What is Plugin:
* You can add some attribute like monitoring or additional AMQP ,...
1) Management Plugin 
    it is for monitoring and graphic envoirment 
* if you want to active this you should first see all list plugin in rabbitmq
1.1) docker exec 149<Id contianer> rabbitmq-plugins list
1.2) docker exec 149 rabbitmq-plugins enable rabbitmq_management
1.3) docker exec 149 rabbitmq-plugins list
    * E==> the client active it.
    * e==> the package for active is depended on other plugin and automatic rabbitmq Active it.
1.4)  docker exec 149 rabbitmq-plugins list -v.
1.5) docker exec 149 rabbitmq-plugins list -m 
* For Disable:
. docker exec 149 rabbitmq-plugins disable rabbitmq_management


## What is Ack:
when the consumer reciev the data from Queue say to producer i get it and you can delete it from your self
* befor you dont set it in your code:
    * docker exec 149 rabbitmqctl list_queues <the receiev should off>
## What is Vhost:
Virtual hosting is a method for hosting multiple domain names on a single server. 
Default Virtual Host
    * hostName:"/"
    * username:"guest",pass:"guest"
rabbitmqctl add_user <username> <password>
rabbitmqctl add_vhost my_vhost
rabbitmqctl set_permissions -p <vhost_name> <username> ".*" ".*" ".*"

2) rabbitmqctl:
* it is for  managing RabbitMq nodes   and add user ,....
2.1) Add user in RabbitMq:
*  docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl list_users
for adding:
1) u can go to localhost:15672 and step Admin and add user.
2) docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl add_user "afshin" "1234".
2) give Access_and_Permissions[https://www.rabbitmq.com/management.html] => docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl set_user_tags "afshin" administrator.
2) give for which vHost ==> docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl set_permissions -p "/" "afshin" ".*" ".*" ".*" ==> 1) * ==> config ,Write,Read

DELETE USER ==>
1) docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl delete_yser "afshin".
## what is durable:
if a queue is not durable,all messages will be lost if RabbitMQ is shut down for any reason.
for test you can write a code and in code you can specified it and after that: docker restart rabbitmq
if durable is not True all message is destroy.
## What is RoundRobin:
it is look like the Load Balancing.
it Distribution the request to multi service .
## What is reply_to , correlation_id:
Both of them shoudl set on header.
1) reply_to==> it is indentify after the server get the request and the value where set on the queue.
2) correlation_id ==> each request has unique Id that name is correlation Id.
## What is reply_to , correlation_id:

## Dependency

1. yarn add @types/express @types/node pm2 typescript
2. install RabbitMq
    2. for use in Javascript ==> npm install amqplib
    2. for use in Golang ==> python3 -m pip install pika --upgrade
    2. for use in python ==> go get github.com/rabbitmq/amqp091-go



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zc2mQSQXoS4&list=PLlameCF3cMEthFSEZkS2ySnjvGg9OJ85X
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=APfWkfkjRj8

Commit message:

feat: :zap: add how to  vhost

README.md, after:

# RabbitMq
How work rabbitMQ? RabbitMq is a MessageBrocker
# what is messageBrocker ?
it is an intermediary computer program that create communication between system or application by managing the transfer of the data(messages) between them.
* we set for all operation 
### Message Queue:
• a message broker often operates on the concept of a message Queue.
• Application or Service send messages to a queue and other application can retrieve and process those message from the queue.
• Queues provide a way for different parts of a system to communicate asynchronously And decoupling the producer(those sending messages) and Consumers (those receiving and processing messages)

## What is Exchange:
we are not send message on queue and we send message on Exchange  
In the context of message queues, particularly in systems like RabbitMQ or Apache Kafka, an exchange is a fundamental component responsible for receiving messages from producers and routing them to message queues based on specific rules, known as bindings.

When a message is sent to an exchange, it doesn't immediately land in a queue. Instead, the exchange examines the message's routing key and other properties, and then routes it to one or more queues based on rules defined by bindings. These rules determine which queues should receive the message based on criteria such as routing keys, message attributes, or patterns.

Exchanges come in different types, each with its own routing algorithm:

1. **Direct Exchange**: Routes messages to queues based on an exact match between the routing key and the binding key. <set the name of the queue OneName>

2. **Fanout Exchange**: Routes messages to all queues bound to it, regardless of the routing key.<set on all the queue>

3. **Topic Exchange**: Routes messages to queues based on wildcard matching of the routing key.<set the names of the queue multiName>

4. **Headers Exchange**: Routes messages based on message header attributes rather than the routing key.<set the names of the queue like json>

The exchange acts as a mediator between producers and queues, ensuring that messages are delivered to the appropriate destinations based on the defined routing rules. It abstracts the complexity of message routing from producers and allows for flexible and dynamic message routing within the system.
* docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl list_exchanges
## for create Exchange(declar):
create exchange you should use the declar:
1) docker exec -it 14 rabbitmqadmin declare exchange name=send_email_events --vhost=customers  type=topic -u afshin -p 123456 durable=true
if  rabbitmqadmin is error you can use:
1.1) curl -i -u afshin:123456 -H "content-type:application/json" -XPUT http://localhost:15672/api/exchanges/customers/send_email_events -d'{"type":"topic","durable":true}'
after the create you should give the permission for the Exchange the you create.
## DELETE exchnage
1) docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl list_exchanges
2) rabbitmqctl delete_exchange <exchange_name>

## What is Channel:

* In the context of message queue systems like RabbitMQ or Apache Kafka, a channel is a communication pathway or virtual connection between a client (producer or consumer) and a message broker (e.g., RabbitMQ server, Kafka broker). Channels are used to send and receive messages, manage acknowledgments, and control flow between the client and the message broker.
In summary, channels play a crucial role in facilitating communication and message exchange between clients (producers and consumers) and message brokers in message . * queue systems, providing a level of abstraction and control over the underlying communication processes.
You can use one Channel for everything. However, if you have multiple threads, it's suggested to use a different Channel for each thread

## What is Plugin:
* You can add some attribute like monitoring or additional AMQP ,...
1) Management Plugin 
    it is for monitoring and graphic envoirment 
* if you want to active this you should first see all list plugin in rabbitmq
1.1) docker exec 149<Id contianer> rabbitmq-plugins list
1.2) docker exec 149 rabbitmq-plugins enable rabbitmq_management
1.3) docker exec 149 rabbitmq-plugins list
    * E==> the client active it.
    * e==> the package for active is depended on other plugin and automatic rabbitmq Active it.
1.4)  docker exec 149 rabbitmq-plugins list -v.
1.5) docker exec 149 rabbitmq-plugins list -m 
* For Disable:
. docker exec 149 rabbitmq-plugins disable rabbitmq_management


## what is exclusive:
when you want to ensure that only a single consumer is processing messages from a queue.
1) true ==>  it means that only the connection that created the queue can access and use it. Once the connection that declared the queue is closed (either intentionally or due to a failure), the queue will be deleted. true means that only the connection that created the consumer can consume messages from the queue. If another connection attempts to consume from the same queue, it will receive an error.
2) false ==> 
## What is Ack:
when the consumer reciev the data from Queue say to producer i get it and you can delete it from your self
* befor you dont set it in your code:
    * docker exec 149 rabbitmqctl list_queues <the receiev should off>
## What is Vhost:
Virtual hosting is a method for hosting multiple domain names on a single server. 
Default Virtual Host
    * hostName:"/"
    * username:"guest",pass:"guest"
rabbitmqctl add_user <username> <password>
rabbitmqctl add_vhost my_vhost
rabbitmqctl set_permissions -p <vhost_name> <username> ".*" ".*" ".*"

2) rabbitmqctl:
* it is for  managing RabbitMq nodes   and add user ,....
2.1) Add user in RabbitMq:<LIST>
*  docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl list_users
for adding:
1) u can go to localhost:15672 and step Admin and add user.
2) docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl add_user "afshin" "1234".
2) give Access_and_Permissions[https://www.rabbitmq.com/management.html] => docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl set_user_tags "afshin" administrator.
2) give for which vHost ==> docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl set_permissions -p "/" "afshin" ".*" ".*" ".*" ==> 1) * ==> config ,Write,Read

DELETE USER ==>
1) docker exec 14 rabbitmqctl delete_user "afshin".
## what is durable:
if a queue is not durable,all messages will be lost if RabbitMQ is shut down for any reason.
for test you can write a code and in code you can specified it and after that: docker restart rabbitmq
if durable is not True all message is destroy.
## What is RoundRobin:
it is look like the Load Balancing.
it Distribution the request to multi service .
## What is reply_to , correlation_id:
Both of them shoudl set on header.
1) reply_to==> it is indentify after the server get the request and the value where set on the queue.
2) correlation_id ==> each request has unique Id that name is correlation Id.
## What is reply_to , correlation_id:

## Dependency

1. yarn add @types/express @types/node pm2 typescript
2. install RabbitMq
    2. for use in Javascript ==> npm install amqplib
    2. for use in Golang ==> python3 -m pip install pika --upgrade
    2. for use in python ==> go get github.com/rabbitmq/amqp091-go



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zc2mQSQXoS4&list=PLlameCF3cMEthFSEZkS2ySnjvGg9OJ85X
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=APfWkfkjRj8

1) create user and get vhost and permission
2) create declare docker exec -it 14 rabbitmqadmin declare exchange name=send_email_events --vhost=customers  type=topic -u afshin -p 123456 durable=true 
or 2) docker exec -it 14 rabbitmqadmin declare exchange name=send_email_events --vhost=customers  type=topic -u afshin -p 123456 durable=true
if  rabbitmqadmin is error you can use:
1.1) curl -i -u afshin:123456 -H "content-type:application/json" -XPUT http://localhost:15672/api/exchanges/customers/send_email_events -d'{"type":"topic","durable":true}'

. curl -i -u afshin:afvsa9899 -H "content-type:application/json" -XPUT http://localhost:15672/api/exchanges/send/send_email_events -d'{"type":"topic","durable":true}'
.. vhost:send,declar:send_email_evevne
